collectors/python.d.plugin/README.md, before:

# python.d.plugin

`python.d.plugin` is a netdata external plugin. It is an **orchestrator** for data collection modules written in `python`.

1. It runs as an independent process `ps fax` shows it
2. It is started and stopped automatically by netdata
3. It communicates with netdata via a unidirectional pipe (sending data to the netdata daemon)
4. Supports any number of data collection **modules**
5. Allows each **module** to have one or more data collection **jobs**
6. Each **job** is collecting one or more metrics from a single data source

## Pull Request Checklist for Python Plugins

This is a generic checklist for submitting a new Python plugin for Netdata.  It is by no means comprehensive.

At minimum, to be buildable and testable, the PR needs to include:

* The module itself, following proper naming conventions: `python.d/<module_dir>/<module_name>.chart.py`
* A README.md file for the plugin under `python.d/<module_dir>`. 
* The configuration file for the module: `conf.d/python.d/<module_name>.conf`. Python config files are in YAML format, and should include comments describing what options are present. The instructions are also needed in the configuration section of the README.md 
* A basic configuration for the plugin in the appropriate global config file: `conf.d/python.d.conf`, which is also in YAML format.  Either add a line that reads `# <module_name>: yes` if the module is to be enabled by default, or one that reads `<module_name>: no` if it is to be disabled by default.
* A line for the plugin in `python.d/Makefile.am` under `dist_python_DATA`.
* A line for the plugin configuration file in `conf.d/Makefile.am`, under `dist_pythonconfig_DATA`
* Optionally, chart information in `web/dashboard_info.js`.  This generally involves specifying a name and icon for the section, and may include descriptions for the section or individual charts.


## Disclaimer

Every module should be compatible with python2 and python3.
All third party libraries should be installed system-wide or in `python_modules` directory.
Module configurations are written in YAML and **pyYAML is required**.

Every configuration file must have one of two formats:

- Configuration for only one job:

```yaml
update_every : 2 # update frequency
retries      : 1 # how many failures in update() is tolerated
priority     : 20000 # where it is shown on dashboard

other_var1   : bla  # variables passed to module
other_var2   : alb
```

- Configuration for many jobs (ex. mysql):

```yaml
# module defaults:
update_every : 2
retries      : 1
priority     : 20000

local:  # job name
  update_every : 5 # job update frequency
  other_var1   : some_val # module specific variable

other_job:
  priority     : 5 # job position on dashboard
  retries      : 20 # job retries
  other_var2   : val # module specific variable
```

`update_every`, `retries`, and `priority` are always optional.

---

## How to write a new module

Writing new python module is simple. You just need to remember to include 5 major things:
- **ORDER** global list
- **CHART** global dictionary
- **Service** class
- **_get_data** method
- all code needs to be compatible with Python 2 (**≥ 2.7**) *and* 3 (**≥ 3.1**)

If you plan to submit the module in a PR, make sure and go through the [PR checklist for new modules](#pull-request-checklist-for-python-plugins) beforehand to make sure you have updated all the files you need to.

### Global variables `ORDER` and `CHART`

`ORDER` list should contain the order of chart ids. Example:
```py
ORDER = ['first_chart', 'second_chart', 'third_chart']
```

`CHART` dictionary is a little bit trickier. It should contain the chart definition in following format:
```py
CHART = {
    id: {
        'options': [name, title, units, family, context, charttype],
        'lines': [
            [unique_dimension_name, name, algorithm, multiplier, divisor]
        ]}
```

All names are better explained in the [External Plugins](../) section.
Parameters like `priority` and `update_every` are handled by `python.d.plugin`.

### `Service` class

Every module needs to implement its own `Service` class. This class should inherit from one of the framework classes:

- `SimpleService`
- `UrlService`
- `SocketService`
- `LogService`
- `ExecutableService`

Also it needs to invoke the parent class constructor in a specific way as well as assign global variables to class variables. 

Simple example:
```py
from base import UrlService
class Service(UrlService):
    def __init__(self, configuration=None, name=None):
        UrlService.__init__(self, configuration=configuration, name=name)
        self.order = ORDER
        self.definitions = CHARTS
```

### `_get_data` collector/parser

This method should grab raw data from `_get_raw_data`, parse it, and return a dictionary where keys are unique dimension names or `None` if no data is collected.

Example:
```py
def _get_data(self):
    try:
        raw = self._get_raw_data().split(" ")
        return {'active': int(raw[2])}
    except (ValueError, AttributeError):
        return None
```

More about framework classes
============================

Every framework class has some user-configurable variables which are specific to this particular class. Those variables should have default values initialized in the child class constructor.

If module needs some additional user-configurable variable, it can be accessed from the `self.configuration` list and assigned in constructor or custom `check` method. Example:
```py
def __init__(self, configuration=None, name=None):
    UrlService.__init__(self, configuration=configuration, name=name)
    try:
        self.baseurl = str(self.configuration['baseurl'])
    except (KeyError, TypeError):
        self.baseurl = "http://localhost:5001"
```

Classes implement `_get_raw_data` which should be used to grab raw data. This method usually returns a list of strings.

### `SimpleService`

_This is last resort class, if a new module cannot be written by using other framework class this one can be used._

_Example: `mysql`, `sensors`_

It is the lowest-level class which implements most of module logic, like:
- threading
- handling run times
- chart formatting
- logging
- chart creation and updating

### `LogService`

_Examples: `apache_cache`, `nginx_log`_

_Variable from config file_: `log_path`.

Object created from this class reads new lines from file specified in `log_path` variable. It will check if file exists and is readable. Also `_get_raw_data` returns list of strings where each string is one line from file specified in `log_path`.

### `ExecutableService`

_Examples: `exim`, `postfix`_

_Variable from config file_: `command`.

This allows to execute a shell command in a secure way. It will check for invalid characters in `command` variable and won't proceed if there is one of:
- '&'
- '|'
- ';'
- '>'
- '<'

For additional security it uses python `subprocess.Popen` (without `shell=True` option) to execute command. Command can be specified with absolute or relative name. When using relative name, it will try to find `command` in `PATH` environment variable as well as in `/sbin` and `/usr/sbin`.

`_get_raw_data` returns list of decoded lines returned by `command`.

### UrlService

_Examples: `apache`, `nginx`, `tomcat`_

_Variables from config file_: `url`, `user`, `pass`.

If data is grabbed by accessing service via HTTP protocol, this class can be used. It can handle HTTP Basic Auth when specified with `user` and `pass` credentials.

`_get_raw_data` returns list of utf-8 decoded strings (lines).

### SocketService

_Examples: `dovecot`, `redis`_

_Variables from config file_: `unix_socket`, `host`, `port`, `request`.

Object will try execute `request` using either `unix_socket` or TCP/IP socket with combination of `host` and `port`. This can access unix sockets with SOCK_STREAM or SOCK_DGRAM protocols and TCP/IP sockets in version 4 and 6 with SOCK_STREAM setting.

Sockets are accessed in non-blocking mode with 15 second timeout.

After every execution of `_get_raw_data` socket is closed, to prevent this module needs to set `_keep_alive` variable to `True` and implement custom `_check_raw_data` method.

`_check_raw_data` should take raw data and return `True` if all data is received otherwise it should return `False`. Also it should do it in fast and efficient way.

Commit message:

Add debug instructions for python modules (#4799)
Used instruction from @ilyam8 in #4085 to add a (How to debug python modules) section.

collectors/python.d.plugin/README.md, after:

# python.d.plugin

`python.d.plugin` is a netdata external plugin. It is an **orchestrator** for data collection modules written in `python`.

1. It runs as an independent process `ps fax` shows it
2. It is started and stopped automatically by netdata
3. It communicates with netdata via a unidirectional pipe (sending data to the netdata daemon)
4. Supports any number of data collection **modules**
5. Allows each **module** to have one or more data collection **jobs**
6. Each **job** is collecting one or more metrics from a single data source

## Pull Request Checklist for Python Plugins

This is a generic checklist for submitting a new Python plugin for Netdata.  It is by no means comprehensive.

At minimum, to be buildable and testable, the PR needs to include:

* The module itself, following proper naming conventions: `python.d/<module_dir>/<module_name>.chart.py`
* A README.md file for the plugin under `python.d/<module_dir>`. 
* The configuration file for the module: `conf.d/python.d/<module_name>.conf`. Python config files are in YAML format, and should include comments describing what options are present. The instructions are also needed in the configuration section of the README.md 
* A basic configuration for the plugin in the appropriate global config file: `conf.d/python.d.conf`, which is also in YAML format.  Either add a line that reads `# <module_name>: yes` if the module is to be enabled by default, or one that reads `<module_name>: no` if it is to be disabled by default.
* A line for the plugin in `python.d/Makefile.am` under `dist_python_DATA`.
* A line for the plugin configuration file in `conf.d/Makefile.am`, under `dist_pythonconfig_DATA`
* Optionally, chart information in `web/dashboard_info.js`.  This generally involves specifying a name and icon for the section, and may include descriptions for the section or individual charts.


## Disclaimer

Every module should be compatible with python2 and python3.
All third party libraries should be installed system-wide or in `python_modules` directory.
Module configurations are written in YAML and **pyYAML is required**.

Every configuration file must have one of two formats:

- Configuration for only one job:

```yaml
update_every : 2 # update frequency
retries      : 1 # how many failures in update() is tolerated
priority     : 20000 # where it is shown on dashboard

other_var1   : bla  # variables passed to module
other_var2   : alb
```

- Configuration for many jobs (ex. mysql):

```yaml
# module defaults:
update_every : 2
retries      : 1
priority     : 20000

local:  # job name
  update_every : 5 # job update frequency
  other_var1   : some_val # module specific variable

other_job:
  priority     : 5 # job position on dashboard
  retries      : 20 # job retries
  other_var2   : val # module specific variable
```

`update_every`, `retries`, and `priority` are always optional.

## How to debug a python module

```
# become user netdata
sudo su -s /bin/bash netdata
```
Depending on where Netdata was installed, execute one of the following commands to trace the execution of a python module:

```
# execute the plugin in debug mode, for a specific module
/opt/netdata/usr/libexec/netdata/plugins.d/python.d.plugin <module> debug trace
/usr/libexec/netdata/plugins.d/python.d.plugin <module> debug trace
```
Where `[module]` is the directory name under https://github.com/netdata/netdata/tree/master/collectors/python.d.plugin 

## How to write a new module

Writing new python module is simple. You just need to remember to include 5 major things:
- **ORDER** global list
- **CHART** global dictionary
- **Service** class
- **_get_data** method
- all code needs to be compatible with Python 2 (**≥ 2.7**) *and* 3 (**≥ 3.1**)

If you plan to submit the module in a PR, make sure and go through the [PR checklist for new modules](#pull-request-checklist-for-python-plugins) beforehand to make sure you have updated all the files you need to.

### Global variables `ORDER` and `CHART`

`ORDER` list should contain the order of chart ids. Example:
```py
ORDER = ['first_chart', 'second_chart', 'third_chart']
```

`CHART` dictionary is a little bit trickier. It should contain the chart definition in following format:
```py
CHART = {
    id: {
        'options': [name, title, units, family, context, charttype],
        'lines': [
            [unique_dimension_name, name, algorithm, multiplier, divisor]
        ]}
```

All names are better explained in the [External Plugins](../) section.
Parameters like `priority` and `update_every` are handled by `python.d.plugin`.

### `Service` class

Every module needs to implement its own `Service` class. This class should inherit from one of the framework classes:

- `SimpleService`
- `UrlService`
- `SocketService`
- `LogService`
- `ExecutableService`

Also it needs to invoke the parent class constructor in a specific way as well as assign global variables to class variables. 

Simple example:
```py
from base import UrlService
class Service(UrlService):
    def __init__(self, configuration=None, name=None):
        UrlService.__init__(self, configuration=configuration, name=name)
        self.order = ORDER
        self.definitions = CHARTS
```

### `_get_data` collector/parser

This method should grab raw data from `_get_raw_data`, parse it, and return a dictionary where keys are unique dimension names or `None` if no data is collected.

Example:
```py
def _get_data(self):
    try:
        raw = self._get_raw_data().split(" ")
        return {'active': int(raw[2])}
    except (ValueError, AttributeError):
        return None
```

More about framework classes
============================

Every framework class has some user-configurable variables which are specific to this particular class. Those variables should have default values initialized in the child class constructor.

If module needs some additional user-configurable variable, it can be accessed from the `self.configuration` list and assigned in constructor or custom `check` method. Example:
```py
def __init__(self, configuration=None, name=None):
    UrlService.__init__(self, configuration=configuration, name=name)
    try:
        self.baseurl = str(self.configuration['baseurl'])
    except (KeyError, TypeError):
        self.baseurl = "http://localhost:5001"
```

Classes implement `_get_raw_data` which should be used to grab raw data. This method usually returns a list of strings.

### `SimpleService`

_This is last resort class, if a new module cannot be written by using other framework class this one can be used._

_Example: `mysql`, `sensors`_

It is the lowest-level class which implements most of module logic, like:
- threading
- handling run times
- chart formatting
- logging
- chart creation and updating

### `LogService`

_Examples: `apache_cache`, `nginx_log`_

_Variable from config file_: `log_path`.

Object created from this class reads new lines from file specified in `log_path` variable. It will check if file exists and is readable. Also `_get_raw_data` returns list of strings where each string is one line from file specified in `log_path`.

### `ExecutableService`

_Examples: `exim`, `postfix`_

_Variable from config file_: `command`.

This allows to execute a shell command in a secure way. It will check for invalid characters in `command` variable and won't proceed if there is one of:
- '&'
- '|'
- ';'
- '>'
- '<'

For additional security it uses python `subprocess.Popen` (without `shell=True` option) to execute command. Command can be specified with absolute or relative name. When using relative name, it will try to find `command` in `PATH` environment variable as well as in `/sbin` and `/usr/sbin`.

`_get_raw_data` returns list of decoded lines returned by `command`.

### UrlService

_Examples: `apache`, `nginx`, `tomcat`_

_Variables from config file_: `url`, `user`, `pass`.

If data is grabbed by accessing service via HTTP protocol, this class can be used. It can handle HTTP Basic Auth when specified with `user` and `pass` credentials.

`_get_raw_data` returns list of utf-8 decoded strings (lines).

### SocketService

_Examples: `dovecot`, `redis`_

_Variables from config file_: `unix_socket`, `host`, `port`, `request`.

Object will try execute `request` using either `unix_socket` or TCP/IP socket with combination of `host` and `port`. This can access unix sockets with SOCK_STREAM or SOCK_DGRAM protocols and TCP/IP sockets in version 4 and 6 with SOCK_STREAM setting.

Sockets are accessed in non-blocking mode with 15 second timeout.

After every execution of `_get_raw_data` socket is closed, to prevent this module needs to set `_keep_alive` variable to `True` and implement custom `_check_raw_data` method.

`_check_raw_data` should take raw data and return `True` if all data is received otherwise it should return `False`. Also it should do it in fast and efficient way.
