collectors/ebpf_process.plugin/README.md, before:

# eBPF monitoring with Netdata

This collector plugin uses eBPF to monitor system calls inside your operating system's kernel. For now, the main goal of
this plugin is to monitor IO and process management on the host where it is running.

<figure>
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1153921/74746434-ad6a1e00-5222-11ea-858a-a7882617ae02.png" alt="An example of VFS charts, made possible by the eBPF collector plugin" />
  <figcaption>An example of VFS charts, made possible by the eBPF collector plugin</figcaption>
</figure>

## Enable the collector on Linux

Currently, this `ebpf_process` collector only works on Linux systems. Because it adds overhead to the system running it,
the collector is also disabled by default.

Follow the next few steps to ensure compatibility, prepare your system, install Netdata with eBPF compiled, and enable
the collector.

### Ensure kernel compatibility

To enable this plugin and its collector, you must be on a Linux system with a kernel that is more recent than `4.11.0`
and compiled with the option `CONFIG_KPROBES=y`. You can verify whether your kernel has this option enabled by running
the following commands:

```bash
grep CONFIG_KPROBES=y /boot/config-$(uname -r)
zgrep CONFIG_KPROBES=y /proc/config.gz
```

If `Kprobes` is enabled, you will see `CONFIG_KPROBES=y` as the command's output, and can skip ahead to the next step: [mount `debugfs` and `tracefs`](#mount-debugfs-and-tracefs).

If you don't see `CONFIG_KPROBES=y` for any of the commands above, you will have to recompile your kernel to enable it.

The process of recompiling Linux kernels varies based on your distribution and version. Read the documentation for your
system's distribution to learn more about the specific workflow for recompiling the kernel, ensuring that you set the
`CONFIG_KPROBES` setting to `y` in the process.

-   [Ubuntu](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/BuildYourOwnKernel)
-   [Debian](https://kernel-team.pages.debian.net/kernel-handbook/ch-common-tasks.html#s-common-official)
-   [Fedora](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Building_a_custom_kernel)
-   [CentOS](https://wiki.centos.org/HowTos/Custom_Kernel)
-   [Arch Linux](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Kernel/Traditional_compilation)
-   [Slackware](https://docs.slackware.com/howtos:slackware_admin:kernelbuilding)

### Mount `debugfs` and `tracefs`

The eBPF collector also requires both the `tracefs` and `debugfs` filesystems. Try mounting the `tracefs` and `debugfs`
filesystems using the commands below:

```bash
sudo mount -t debugfs nodev /sys/kernel/debug
sudo mount -t tracefs nodev /sys/kernel/tracing
```
​
If they are already mounted, you will see an error. If they are not mounted, they should be after running those two
commands. You can also configure your system's `/etc/fstab` configuration to mount these filesystems.

### Install Netdata with the `--enable-ebpf` 

eBPF collection is only enabled if you install Netdata with the `--enable-ebpf` option. 

If you installed via the [one-line installation script](../../packaging/installer/README.md), [64-bit
binary](../../packaging/installer/methods/kickstart-64.md), or [manually](../../packaging/installer/methods/manual.md),
you can append the `--enable-ebpf` option when you reinstall.

For example, if you used the one-line installation script, you can reinstall Netdata with the following:

```bash
bash <(curl -Ss https://my-netdata.io/kickstart.sh) --enable-ebpf
```

This process will not overwrite any changes you made to configuration files.

### Edit `netdata.conf` to enable the collector

After installing Netdata with the `--enable-ebpf` option, you still need to enable the plugin explicitly. To do so, use
`edit-config` to open `netdata.conf` and set `ebpf_process = yes` in the `[plugins]` section.

```bash
cd /etc/netdata/ # Replace with your Netdata configuration directory, if not /etc/netdata/
./edit-config netdata.conf
```

Scroll down to the `[plugins]` section and uncomment the `ebpf_process` line after changing its setting to `yes`.

```conf
[plugins]
   ebpf_process = yes
```

Restart Netdata with `service netdata restart`, or the appropriate method for your system, and reload your browser to
see eBPF charts.

## Charts

The first version of `ebpf_process.plugin` gives a general vision about process running on computer. The charts related
to this plugin are inside the **eBPF** option on dashboard menu and divided in three groups `file`, `vfs`, and
`process`.

All the collector charts show values per second. The collector retains the total value, but charts only show the
difference between the previous and current metrics collections.

### File

This group has two charts to demonstrate how software interacts with the Linux kernel to open and close file 
descriptors.

#### File descriptor

This chart contains two dimensions that show the number of calls to the functions `do_sys_open` and `__close_fd`. These
functions are not commonly called from software, but they are behind the system cals `open(2)`, `openat(2)`, and
`close(2)`. ​

#### File error

This charts demonstrate the number of times some software tried and failed to open or close a file descriptor.
 
### VFS

A [virtual file system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_file_system) (VFS) is a layer on top of regular
filesystems. The functions present inside this API are used for all filesystems, so it's possible the charts in this
group won't show _all_ the actions that occured on your system.

#### Deleted objects

This chart monitors calls for `vfs_unlink`. This function is responsible for removing object from the file system. 

#### IO

This chart shows the number of calls to the functions `vfs_read` and `vfs_write`.

#### IO bytes

This chart also monitors `vfs_read` and `vfs_write`, but instead shows the total of bytes read and written with these
functions.
 
Netdata displays the number of bytes written as negative, because they are moving down to disk. 
 
#### IO errors

Netdata counts and shows the number of instances where a running program experiences a read or write error.

### Process

For this group, the eBPF collector monitors process/thread creation and process end, and then displays any errors in the
following charts.
 
#### Process thread

Internally, the Linux kernel treats both process and threads as `tasks`. To create a thread, the kernel offers a few
system calls: `fork(2)`, `vfork(2)` and `clone(2)`. Each of these system calls in turn use the function `_do_fork`. To
generate this chart, Netdata monitors `_do_fork` to populate the `process` dimension, and monitors `sys_clone` to
identify threads

#### Exit

Ending a task is actually two steps. The first is a call to the internal function `do_exit`, which notifies the
operating system that the task is finishing its work. The second step is the release of kernel information, which is
done with the internal function `release_task`. The difference between the two dimensions can help you discover [zombie
processes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zombie_process).

#### Task error

The functions responsible for ending tasks do not return values, so this chart contains information about failures on
process and thread creation.

## Configuration

This plugin has different configuration modes, all of which can be adjusted with its configuration file at
`ebpf_process.conf`. By default, the plugin uses the less expensive `entry` mode. You can learn more about how the
plugin works using `entry` by reading this configuration file.

You can always edit this file with `edit-config`:

```bash
cd /etc/netdata/ # Replace with your Netdata configuration directory, if not /etc/netdata/
./edit-config ebpf_process.conf
```

### `[global]`

In this section we define variables applied to the whole collector and the other subsections.

#### load

The collector has three different eBPF programs. These programs monitor the same functions inside the kernel, but they
monitor, process, and display different kinds of information.

By default, this plugin uses the `entry` mode. Changing this mode can create significant overhead on your operating
system, but also offer important information if you are developing or debugging software. The `load` option accepts the
following values: ​

-   `entry`: This is the default mode. In this mode, Netdata monitors only calls for the functions described in the
    sections above. When this mode is selected, Netdata does not show charts related to errors.
-   `return`: In this mode, Netdata also monitors the calls to function. In the `entry` mode, Netdata only traces kernel
    functions, but with `return`, Netdata also monitors the return of each function. This mode creates more charts, but
    also creates an overhead of roughly 110 nanosections for each function call.

Commit message:

Tweak eBPF documentation and add performance data (#8261)
* Tweak eBPF documentation and add performance data

* Fixes for Chris and Thiago

* Update collectors/ebpf_process.plugin/README.md

Co-Authored-By: Patti Short <35278231+shortpatti@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Patti Short <35278231+shortpatti@users.noreply.github.com>

collectors/ebpf_process.plugin/README.md, after:

# eBPF monitoring with Netdata

This collector plugin uses eBPF (Extended Berkeley Packet Filter) to monitor system calls inside your operating system's
kernel. For now, the main goal of this plugin is to monitor IO and process management on the host where it is running.

<figure>
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1153921/74746434-ad6a1e00-5222-11ea-858a-a7882617ae02.png" alt="An example of VFS charts, made possible by the eBPF collector plugin" />
  <figcaption>An example of VFS charts, made possible by the eBPF collector plugin</figcaption>
</figure>

With this eBPF collector, you can monitor sophisticated system-level metrics about your complex applications while
maintaining Netdata's [high standards for performance](#performance).

## Enable the collector on Linux

eBPF is only available on Linux systems, which means this collector only works on Linux.

The collector is currently in an _alpha_ stage, as we are still working on improving compatibility with more Linux
distributions and versions, and to ensure the collector works as expected.

Follow the next few steps to ensure compatibility, prepare your system, install Netdata with eBPF compiled, and enable
the collector.

### Ensure kernel compatibility

To enable this plugin and its collector, you must be on a Linux system with a kernel that is more recent than `4.11.0`
and compiled with the option `CONFIG_KPROBES=y`. You can verify whether your kernel has this option enabled by running
the following commands:

```bash
grep CONFIG_KPROBES=y /boot/config-$(uname -r)
zgrep CONFIG_KPROBES=y /proc/config.gz
```

If `Kprobes` is enabled, you will see `CONFIG_KPROBES=y` as the command's output, and can skip ahead to the next step: [mount `debugfs` and `tracefs`](#mount-debugfs-and-tracefs).

If you don't see `CONFIG_KPROBES=y` for any of the commands above, you will have to recompile your kernel to enable it.

The process of recompiling Linux kernels varies based on your distribution and version. Read the documentation for your
system's distribution to learn more about the specific workflow for recompiling the kernel, ensuring that you set the
`CONFIG_KPROBES` setting to `y` in the process.

-   [Ubuntu](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/BuildYourOwnKernel)
-   [Debian](https://kernel-team.pages.debian.net/kernel-handbook/ch-common-tasks.html#s-common-official)
-   [Fedora](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Building_a_custom_kernel)
-   [CentOS](https://wiki.centos.org/HowTos/Custom_Kernel)
-   [Arch Linux](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Kernel/Traditional_compilation)
-   [Slackware](https://docs.slackware.com/howtos:slackware_admin:kernelbuilding)

### Mount `debugfs` and `tracefs`

The eBPF collector also requires both the `tracefs` and `debugfs` filesystems. Try mounting the `tracefs` and `debugfs`
filesystems using the commands below:

```bash
sudo mount -t debugfs nodev /sys/kernel/debug
sudo mount -t tracefs nodev /sys/kernel/tracing
```
​
If they are already mounted, you will see an error. If they are not mounted, they should be after running those two
commands. You can also configure your system's `/etc/fstab` configuration to mount these filesystems.

### Install Netdata with the `--enable-ebpf` 

eBPF collection is only enabled if you install Netdata with the `--enable-ebpf` option. 

If you installed via the [one-line installation script](../../packaging/installer/README.md), [64-bit
binary](../../packaging/installer/methods/kickstart-64.md), or [manually](../../packaging/installer/methods/manual.md),
you can append the `--enable-ebpf` option when you reinstall.

For example, if you used the one-line installation script, you can reinstall Netdata with the following:

```bash
bash <(curl -Ss https://my-netdata.io/kickstart.sh) --enable-ebpf
```

This process will not overwrite any changes you made to configuration files.

### Edit `netdata.conf` to enable the collector

After installing Netdata with the `--enable-ebpf` option, you still need to enable the plugin explicitly. To do so, use
`edit-config` to open `netdata.conf` and set `ebpf_process = yes` in the `[plugins]` section.

```bash
cd /etc/netdata/ # Replace with your Netdata configuration directory, if not /etc/netdata/
./edit-config netdata.conf
```

Scroll down to the `[plugins]` section and uncomment the `ebpf_process` line after changing its setting to `yes`.

```conf
[plugins]
   ebpf_process = yes
```

Restart Netdata with `service netdata restart`, or the appropriate method for your system, and reload your browser to
see eBPF charts.

## Charts

The first version of `ebpf_process.plugin` gives a general vision about process running on computer. The charts related
to this plugin are inside the **eBPF** option on dashboard menu and divided in three groups `file`, `vfs`, and
`process`.

All the collector charts show values per second. The collector retains the total value, but charts only show the
difference between the previous and current metrics collections.

### File

This group has two charts to demonstrate how software interacts with the Linux kernel to open and close file 
descriptors.

#### File descriptor

This chart contains two dimensions that show the number of calls to the functions `do_sys_open` and `__close_fd`. These
functions are not commonly called from software, but they are behind the system cals `open(2)`, `openat(2)`, and
`close(2)`. ​

#### File error

This charts demonstrate the number of times some software tried and failed to open or close a file descriptor.
 
### VFS

A [virtual file system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_file_system) (VFS) is a layer on top of regular
filesystems. The functions present inside this API are used for all filesystems, so it's possible the charts in this
group won't show _all_ the actions that occured on your system.

#### Deleted objects

This chart monitors calls for `vfs_unlink`. This function is responsible for removing object from the file system. 

#### IO

This chart shows the number of calls to the functions `vfs_read` and `vfs_write`.

#### IO bytes

This chart also monitors `vfs_read` and `vfs_write`, but instead shows the total of bytes read and written with these
functions.
 
Netdata displays the number of bytes written as negative, because they are moving down to disk. 
 
#### IO errors

Netdata counts and shows the number of instances where a running program experiences a read or write error.

### Process

For this group, the eBPF collector monitors process/thread creation and process end, and then displays any errors in the
following charts.
 
#### Process thread

Internally, the Linux kernel treats both process and threads as `tasks`. To create a thread, the kernel offers a few
system calls: `fork(2)`, `vfork(2)` and `clone(2)`. Each of these system calls in turn use the function `_do_fork`. To
generate this chart, Netdata monitors `_do_fork` to populate the `process` dimension, and monitors `sys_clone` to
identify threads

#### Exit

Ending a task is actually two steps. The first is a call to the internal function `do_exit`, which notifies the
operating system that the task is finishing its work. The second step is the release of kernel information, which is
done with the internal function `release_task`. The difference between the two dimensions can help you discover [zombie
processes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zombie_process).

#### Task error

The functions responsible for ending tasks do not return values, so this chart contains information about failures on
process and thread creation.

## Configuration

This plugin has different configuration modes, all of which can be adjusted with its configuration file at
`ebpf_process.conf`. By default, the plugin uses the less expensive `entry` mode. You can learn more about how the
plugin works using `entry` by reading this configuration file.

You can always edit this file with `edit-config`:

```bash
cd /etc/netdata/ # Replace with your Netdata configuration directory, if not /etc/netdata/
./edit-config ebpf_process.conf
```

### `[global]`

In this section we define variables applied to the whole collector and the other subsections.

#### load

The collector has two different eBPF programs. These programs monitor the same functions inside the kernel, but they
monitor, process, and display different kinds of information.

By default, this plugin uses the `entry` mode. Changing this mode can create significant overhead on your operating
system, but also offer important information if you are developing or debugging software. The `load` option accepts the
following values: ​

-   `entry`: This is the default mode. In this mode, Netdata monitors only calls for the functions described in the
    sections above. When this mode is selected, Netdata does not show charts related to errors.
-   `return`: In this mode, Netdata also monitors the calls to function. In the `entry` mode, Netdata only traces kernel
    functions, but with `return`, Netdata also monitors the return of each function. This mode creates more charts, but
    also creates an overhead of roughly 110 nanosections for each function call.

## Performance

Because eBPF monitoring is complex, we are evaluating the performance of this new collector in various real-world
conditions, across various system loads, and when monitoring complex applications.

Our [initial testing](https://github.com/netdata/netdata/issues/8195) shows the performance of the eBPF collector is
nearly identical to our [apps.plugin collector](../apps.plugin/), despite collecting and displaying much more
sophisticated metrics. You can now use the eBPF to gather deeper insights without affecting the performance of your
complex applications at any load.
