collectors/diskspace.plugin/README.md, before:

# diskspace.plugin

This plugin monitors the disk space usage of mounted disks, under Linux.

Two charts are available for every mount:
 - Disk Space Usage
 - Disk Files (inodes) Usage

## configuration

Simple patterns can be used to exclude mounts from showed statistics based on path or filesystem. By default read-only mounts are not displayed. To display them `yes` should be set for a chart instead of `auto`.

By default, Netdata will enable monitoring metrics only when they are not zero. If they are constantly zero they are ignored. Metrics that will start having values, after netdata is started, will be detected and charts will be automatically added to the dashboard (a refresh of the dashboard is needed for them to appear though). Set `yes` for a chart instead of `auto` to enable it permanently.


```
[plugin:proc:diskspace]
    # remove charts of unmounted disks = yes
    # update every = 1
    # check for new mount points every = 15
    # exclude space metrics on paths = /proc/* /sys/* /var/run/user/* /run/user/* /snap/* /var/lib/docker/*
    # exclude space metrics on filesystems = *gvfs *gluster* *s3fs *ipfs *davfs2 *httpfs *sshfs *gdfs *moosefs fusectl
    # space usage for all disks = auto
    # inodes usage for all disks = auto
```

Charts can be enabled/disabled for every mount separately:

```
[plugin:proc:diskspace:/]
    # space usage = auto
    # inodes usage = auto
```

> for disks performance monitoring, see the `proc` plugin, [here](../proc.plugin/#monitoring-disks)


[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fdiskspace.plugin%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)]()

Commit message:

Add global configuration option for zero metrics (#6419)
* Add global configuration option for zero metrics

* Add the option to the cgroup plugin

* Add the option to the proc plugin (diskstats, meminfo, net_dev,
  netstat, sctp_snmp, snmp, snmp6, sockstat, sockstat6, synproxy,
  vmstat, system_edac_mc, system_node, btrfs, ksm, zfs)

* Add the option to the macos plugin

* Add the option to the freebsd plugin (devstat, getifaddrs,
  getmntinfo, sysctl)

* Change the option behaviour with the 'auto' value

* Add the option to the tc plugin

* Update the documentation

collectors/diskspace.plugin/README.md, after:

# diskspace.plugin

This plugin monitors the disk space usage of mounted disks, under Linux.

Two charts are available for every mount:
 - Disk Space Usage
 - Disk Files (inodes) Usage

## configuration

Simple patterns can be used to exclude mounts from showed statistics based on path or filesystem. By default read-only mounts are not displayed. To display them `yes` should be set for a chart instead of `auto`.

By default, Netdata will enable monitoring metrics only when they are not zero. If they are constantly zero they are ignored. Metrics that will start having values, after netdata is started, will be detected and charts will be automatically added to the dashboard (a refresh of the dashboard is needed for them to appear though). Set `yes` for a chart instead of `auto` to enable it permanently. You can also set the `enable zero metrics` option to `yes` in the `[global]` section which enables charts with zero metrics for all internal Netdata plugins.


```
[plugin:proc:diskspace]
    # remove charts of unmounted disks = yes
    # update every = 1
    # check for new mount points every = 15
    # exclude space metrics on paths = /proc/* /sys/* /var/run/user/* /run/user/* /snap/* /var/lib/docker/*
    # exclude space metrics on filesystems = *gvfs *gluster* *s3fs *ipfs *davfs2 *httpfs *sshfs *gdfs *moosefs fusectl
    # space usage for all disks = auto
    # inodes usage for all disks = auto
```

Charts can be enabled/disabled for every mount separately:

```
[plugin:proc:diskspace:/]
    # space usage = auto
    # inodes usage = auto
```

> for disks performance monitoring, see the `proc` plugin, [here](../proc.plugin/#monitoring-disks)


[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fdiskspace.plugin%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)]()
