collectors/python.d.plugin/redis/README.md, before:

# redis

Get INFO data from redis instance.

Following charts are drawn:

1.  **Operations** per second

    -   operations

2.  **Hit rate** in percent

    -   rate

3.  **Memory utilization** in kilobytes

    -   total
    -   lua

4.  **Database keys**

    -   lines are creates dynamically based on how many databases are there

5.  **Clients**

    -   connected
    -   blocked

6.  **Slaves**

    -   connected

## Configuration

Edit the `python.d/redis.conf` configuration file using `edit-config` from the your agent's [config
directory](../../../docs/step-by-step/step-04.md#find-your-netdataconf-file), which is typically at `/etc/netdata`.

```bash
cd /etc/netdata   # Replace this path with your Netdata config directory, if different
sudo ./edit-config python.d/redis.conf
```

```yaml
socket:
  name     : 'local'
  socket   : '/var/lib/redis/redis.sock'

localhost:
  name     : 'local'
  host     : 'localhost'
  port     : 6379
```

When no configuration file is found, module tries to connect to TCP/IP socket: `localhost:6379`.

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fredis%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)

Commit message:

updates for issue 8006 (#8074)
* updates for issue 8006

* removed unbound from python.d.plugin

* incorporated suggested changes

* incorporated more suggestions

collectors/python.d.plugin/redis/README.md, after:

# Redis monitoring with Netdata

Monitors database status. It reads server response to `INFO` command.

Following charts are drawn:

1.  **Operations** per second

    -   operations

2.  **Hit rate** in percent

    -   rate

3.  **Memory utilization** in kilobytes

    -   total
    -   lua

4.  **Database keys**

    -   lines are creates dynamically based on how many databases are there

5.  **Clients**

    -   connected
    -   blocked

6.  **Slaves**

    -   connected

## Configuration

Edit the `python.d/redis.conf` configuration file using `edit-config` from the your agent's [config
directory](../../../docs/step-by-step/step-04.md#find-your-netdataconf-file), which is typically at `/etc/netdata`.

```bash
cd /etc/netdata   # Replace this path with your Netdata config directory, if different
sudo ./edit-config python.d/redis.conf
```

```yaml
socket:
  name     : 'local'
  socket   : '/var/lib/redis/redis.sock'

localhost:
  name     : 'local'
  host     : 'localhost'
  port     : 6379
```

When no configuration file is found, module tries to connect to TCP/IP socket: `localhost:6379`.

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fredis%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)
