collectors/python.d.plugin/openldap/README.md, before:

# openldap

This module provides statistics information from openldap (slapd) server.
Statistics are taken from LDAP monitoring interface. Manual page, slapd-monitor(5) is available.

**Requirement:**

-   Follow instructions from <https://www.openldap.org/doc/admin24/monitoringslapd.html> to activate monitoring interface.
-   Install python ldap module `pip install ldap` or `yum install python-ldap`
-   Modify openldap.conf with your credentials

### Module gives information with following charts:

1.  **connections**

    -   total connections number

2.  **Bytes**

    -   sent

3.  **operations**

    -   completed
    -   initiated

4.  **referrals**

    -   sent

5.  **entries**

    -   sent

6.  **ldap operations**

    -   bind
    -   search
    -   unbind 
    -   add
    -   delete
    -   modify
    -   compare

7.  **waiters**

    -   read
    -   write

### configuration

Sample:

```yaml
openldap:
  name     : 'local'
  username : "cn=monitor,dc=superb,dc=eu"
  password : "testpass"
  server   : 'localhost'
  port     : 389
```

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fopenldap%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)

Commit message:

Added collector config to relevant READMEs (#8052)

collectors/python.d.plugin/openldap/README.md, after:

# openldap

This module provides statistics information from openldap (slapd) server.
Statistics are taken from LDAP monitoring interface. Manual page, slapd-monitor(5) is available.

**Requirement:**

-   Follow instructions from <https://www.openldap.org/doc/admin24/monitoringslapd.html> to activate monitoring interface.
-   Install python ldap module `pip install ldap` or `yum install python-ldap`
-   Modify openldap.conf with your credentials

### Module gives information with following charts:

1.  **connections**

    -   total connections number

2.  **Bytes**

    -   sent

3.  **operations**

    -   completed
    -   initiated

4.  **referrals**

    -   sent

5.  **entries**

    -   sent

6.  **ldap operations**

    -   bind
    -   search
    -   unbind 
    -   add
    -   delete
    -   modify
    -   compare

7.  **waiters**

    -   read
    -   write

## Configuration

Edit the `python.d/openldap.conf` configuration file using `edit-config` from the your agent's [config
directory](../../../docs/step-by-step/step-04.md#find-your-netdataconf-file), which is typically at `/etc/netdata`.

```bash
cd /etc/netdata   # Replace this path with your Netdata config directory, if different
sudo ./edit-config python.d/openldap.conf
```

Sample:

```yaml
openldap:
  name     : 'local'
  username : "cn=monitor,dc=superb,dc=eu"
  password : "testpass"
  server   : 'localhost'
  port     : 389
```

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fopenldap%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)
