collectors/python.d.plugin/am2320/README.md, before:

# AM2320
This module will display a graph of the temperature and humity from a AM2320 sensor.

**Requirements:**
 - Adafruit Circuit Python AM2320 library
 - Adafruit AM2320 I2C sensor
 - Python 3 (Adafruit libraries are not Python 2.x compatible)
 

It produces the following charts:
1. **Temperature** 
2. **Humidity**

## configuration

Raspbery Pi Instructions:

Hardware install:
Connect the am2320 to the Raspbery Pi I2C pins

Raspberry Pi 3B/4 Pins:

- Board 3.3V (pin 1) to sensor VIN (pin 1)
- Board SDA (pin 3) to sensor SDA (pin 2)
- Board GND (pin 6) to sensor GND (pin 3)
- Board SCL (pin 5) to sensor SCL (pin 4)

You may also need to add two I2C pullup resistors if your board does not already have them. The Raspberry Pi does have internal pullup resistors but it doesn't hurt to add them anyway. You can use 2.2K - 10K but we will just use 10K. The resistors go from VDD to SCL and SDA each.

Software install:
- `sudo pip3 install adafruit-circuitpython-am2320`
- edit `/etc/netdata/netdata.conf`
- find `[plugin:python.d]`
- add  `command options = -ppython3`
- save the file.
- restart the netdata service.
- check the dashboard.

Commit message:

Added collector config to relevant READMEs (#8052)

collectors/python.d.plugin/am2320/README.md, after:

# AM2320
This module will display a graph of the temperature and humity from a AM2320 sensor.

**Requirements:**
 - Adafruit Circuit Python AM2320 library
 - Adafruit AM2320 I2C sensor
 - Python 3 (Adafruit libraries are not Python 2.x compatible)
 

It produces the following charts:
1. **Temperature** 
2. **Humidity**

## configuration

Edit the `python.d/am2320.conf` configuration file using `edit-config` from the your agent's [config
directory](../../../docs/step-by-step/step-04.md#find-your-netdataconf-file), which is typically at `/etc/netdata`.

```bash
cd /etc/netdata   # Replace this path with your Netdata config directory, if different
sudo ./edit-config python.d/am2320.conf
```

Raspbery Pi Instructions:

Hardware install:
Connect the am2320 to the Raspbery Pi I2C pins

Raspberry Pi 3B/4 Pins:

- Board 3.3V (pin 1) to sensor VIN (pin 1)
- Board SDA (pin 3) to sensor SDA (pin 2)
- Board GND (pin 6) to sensor GND (pin 3)
- Board SCL (pin 5) to sensor SCL (pin 4)

You may also need to add two I2C pullup resistors if your board does not already have them. The Raspberry Pi does have internal pullup resistors but it doesn't hurt to add them anyway. You can use 2.2K - 10K but we will just use 10K. The resistors go from VDD to SCL and SDA each.

Software install:
- `sudo pip3 install adafruit-circuitpython-am2320`
- edit `/etc/netdata/netdata.conf`
- find `[plugin:python.d]`
- add  `command options = -ppython3`
- save the file.
- restart the netdata service.
- check the dashboard.
