collectors/xenstat.plugin/README.md, before:

# xenstat.plugin

`xenstat.plugin` collects XenServer and XCP-ng statistics.

## Prerequisites

1.  install `xen-dom0-libs-devel` and `yajl-devel` using the package manager of your system.

2.  re-install Netdata from source. The installer will detect that the required libraries are now available and will also build xenstat.plugin.

Keep in mind that `libxenstat` requires root access, so the plugin is setuid to root.

## Charts

The plugin provides XenServer and XCP-ng host and domains statistics:

Host:

1.  Number of domains.

Domain:

1.  CPU.
2.  Memory.
3.  Networks.
4.  VBDs.

## Configuration

If you need to disable xenstat for Netdata, edit /etc/netdata/netdata.conf and set:

```
[plugins]
    xenstat = no
```

## Debugging

You can run the plugin by hand:

```
sudo /usr/libexec/netdata/plugins.d/xenstat.plugin 1 debug
```

You will get verbose output on what the plugin does.

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fnfacct.plugin%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)

Commit message:

netdata/ci: second batch of fixes for coverity scan script and others (#6804)
* netdata/ci: fine grain coverity scan toolkit

1) Deprecate coverity-install.sh
2) add set -e to raise errors more aggressively when something is wrong
3) refactor some variable definitions for temp and install paths, use mktemp and clean up temp dir when all ok

* netdata/ci: reduce the scope

* netdata/ci: require curl

* netdata/ci: go soft on functions loading

* netdata/ci: allow override of build version without touching the script

* netdata/ci: handle shellcheck errors, some were silenced because we dont handle them

* netdata/ci: coverity scan, parse any extra options other than --with-install and pass them to configure

1) add default configure arguments if no extras are given
2) parse all possible arguments individually, handle --with-install and pass the rest to scanit

* netdata/ci: focus, argument parsing in one place a bit more consistently

* netdata/ci: prepare for using

* netdata/ci: coverity - add more flags, adjust deps list

1) Add with math and with zlib flags on the script
2) add xenstat dependencies
3) run in coverity with custom flags, so that we add xenstat (no need to be by default for the users of the script)

* netdata/packaging: add xen-utils also

* test the flow

* netdata/ci: dont forget to go back to the original directory

* netdata/ci: please, travis, stop it

* netdata/ci: how about this then

* netdata/ci: silence that, we cant call it otherwise

* netdata/packaging: update documentation around xenstat on centos

* netdata/packaging: dont enable xenstat at this stage

* netdata/ci: add += instead of variable reusage

collectors/xenstat.plugin/README.md, after:

# xenstat.plugin

`xenstat.plugin` collects XenServer and XCP-ng statistics.

## Prerequisites

1.  install `xen-dom0-libs-devel` and `yajl-devel` using the package manager of your system.
    Note: On Cent-OS systems you will need `centos-release-xen` repository and the required package for xen is `xen-devel`

2.  re-install Netdata from source. The installer will detect that the required libraries are now available and will also build xenstat.plugin.

Keep in mind that `libxenstat` requires root access, so the plugin is setuid to root.

## Charts

The plugin provides XenServer and XCP-ng host and domains statistics:

Host:

1.  Number of domains.

Domain:

1.  CPU.
2.  Memory.
3.  Networks.
4.  VBDs.

## Configuration

If you need to disable xenstat for Netdata, edit /etc/netdata/netdata.conf and set:

```
[plugins]
    xenstat = no
```

## Debugging

You can run the plugin by hand:

```
sudo /usr/libexec/netdata/plugins.d/xenstat.plugin 1 debug
```

You will get verbose output on what the plugin does.

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fnfacct.plugin%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)
