collectors/python.d.plugin/beanstalk/README.md, before:

# beanstalk

Module provides server and tube-level statistics:

**Requirements:**

-   `python-beanstalkc`

**Server statistics:**

1.  **Cpu usage** in cpu time

    -   user
    -   system

2.  **Jobs rate** in jobs/s

    -   total
    -   timeouts

3.  **Connections rate** in connections/s

    -   connections

4.  **Commands rate** in commands/s

    -   put
    -   peek
    -   peek-ready
    -   peek-delayed
    -   peek-buried
    -   reserve
    -   use
    -   watch
    -   ignore
    -   delete
    -   release
    -   bury
    -   kick
    -   stats
    -   stats-job
    -   stats-tube
    -   list-tubes
    -   list-tube-used
    -   list-tubes-watched
    -   pause-tube

5.  **Current tubes** in tubes

    -   tubes

6.  **Current jobs** in jobs

    -   urgent
    -   ready
    -   reserved
    -   delayed
    -   buried

7.  **Current connections** in connections

    -   written
    -   producers
    -   workers
    -   waiting

8.  **Binlog** in records/s

    -   written
    -   migrated

9.  **Uptime** in seconds

    -   uptime

**Per tube statistics:**

1.  **Jobs rate** in jobs/s

    -   jobs

2.  **Jobs** in jobs

    -   using
    -   ready
    -   reserved
    -   delayed
    -   buried

3.  **Connections** in connections

    -   using
    -   waiting
    -   watching

4.  **Commands** in commands/s

    -   deletes
    -   pauses

5.  **Pause** in seconds

    -   since
    -   left

## configuration

Sample:

```yaml
host         : '127.0.0.1'
port         : 11300
```

If no configuration is given, module will attempt to connect to beanstalkd on `127.0.0.1:11300` address

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fbeanstalk%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)

Commit message:

Added collector config to relevant READMEs (#8052)

collectors/python.d.plugin/beanstalk/README.md, after:

# beanstalk

Module provides server and tube-level statistics:

**Requirements:**

-   `python-beanstalkc`

**Server statistics:**

1.  **Cpu usage** in cpu time

    -   user
    -   system

2.  **Jobs rate** in jobs/s

    -   total
    -   timeouts

3.  **Connections rate** in connections/s

    -   connections

4.  **Commands rate** in commands/s

    -   put
    -   peek
    -   peek-ready
    -   peek-delayed
    -   peek-buried
    -   reserve
    -   use
    -   watch
    -   ignore
    -   delete
    -   release
    -   bury
    -   kick
    -   stats
    -   stats-job
    -   stats-tube
    -   list-tubes
    -   list-tube-used
    -   list-tubes-watched
    -   pause-tube

5.  **Current tubes** in tubes

    -   tubes

6.  **Current jobs** in jobs

    -   urgent
    -   ready
    -   reserved
    -   delayed
    -   buried

7.  **Current connections** in connections

    -   written
    -   producers
    -   workers
    -   waiting

8.  **Binlog** in records/s

    -   written
    -   migrated

9.  **Uptime** in seconds

    -   uptime

**Per tube statistics:**

1.  **Jobs rate** in jobs/s

    -   jobs

2.  **Jobs** in jobs

    -   using
    -   ready
    -   reserved
    -   delayed
    -   buried

3.  **Connections** in connections

    -   using
    -   waiting
    -   watching

4.  **Commands** in commands/s

    -   deletes
    -   pauses

5.  **Pause** in seconds

    -   since
    -   left

## configuration

Edit the `python.d/beanstalk.conf` configuration file using `edit-config` from the your agent's [config
directory](../../../docs/step-by-step/step-04.md#find-your-netdataconf-file), which is typically at `/etc/netdata`.

```bash
cd /etc/netdata   # Replace this path with your Netdata config directory, if different
sudo ./edit-config python.d/beanstalk.conf
```

Sample:

```yaml
host         : '127.0.0.1'
port         : 11300
```

If no configuration is given, module will attempt to connect to beanstalkd on `127.0.0.1:11300` address

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fbeanstalk%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)
