collectors/python.d.plugin/megacli/README.md, before:

# megacli

Module collects adapter, physical drives and battery stats.

**Requirements:**

-   `megacli` program
-   `sudo` program
-   `netdata` user needs to be able to be able to sudo the `megacli` program without password

To grab stats it executes:

-   `sudo -n megacli -LDPDInfo -aAll`
-   `sudo -n megacli -AdpBbuCmd -a0`

It produces:

1.  **Adapter State**

2.  **Physical Drives Media Errors**

3.  **Physical Drives Predictive Failures**

4.  **Battery Relative State of Charge**

5.  **Battery Cycle Count**

## prerequisite

This module uses `megacli` which can only be executed by root.  It uses
`sudo` and assumes that it is configured such that the `netdata` user can
execute `megacli` as root without password.

Add to `sudoers`:

```
netdata ALL=(root)       NOPASSWD: /path/to/megacli
```

### configuration

**megacli** is disabled by default. Should be explicitly enabled in `python.d.conf`.

```yaml
megacli: yes
```

Battery stats disabled by default. To enable them modify `megacli.conf`.

```yaml
do_battery: yes
```

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fmegacli%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)

Commit message:

Added collector config to relevant READMEs (#8052)

collectors/python.d.plugin/megacli/README.md, after:

# megacli

Module collects adapter, physical drives and battery stats.

**Requirements:**

-   `megacli` program
-   `sudo` program
-   `netdata` user needs to be able to be able to sudo the `megacli` program without password

To grab stats it executes:

-   `sudo -n megacli -LDPDInfo -aAll`
-   `sudo -n megacli -AdpBbuCmd -a0`

It produces:

1.  **Adapter State**

2.  **Physical Drives Media Errors**

3.  **Physical Drives Predictive Failures**

4.  **Battery Relative State of Charge**

5.  **Battery Cycle Count**

## prerequisite

This module uses `megacli` which can only be executed by root.  It uses
`sudo` and assumes that it is configured such that the `netdata` user can
execute `megacli` as root without password.

Add to `sudoers`:

```
netdata ALL=(root)       NOPASSWD: /path/to/megacli
```

### Configuration

**megacli** is disabled by default. Should be explicitly enabled in `python.d.conf`.

```yaml
megacli: yes
```

Edit the `python.d/megacli.conf` configuration file using `edit-config` from the your agent's [config
directory](../../../docs/step-by-step/step-04.md#find-your-netdataconf-file), which is typically at `/etc/netdata`.

```bash
cd /etc/netdata   # Replace this path with your Netdata config directory, if different
sudo ./edit-config python.d/megacli.conf
```

Battery stats disabled by default. To enable them, modify `megacli.conf`.

```yaml
do_battery: yes
```

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fmegacli%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)
