collectors/python.d.plugin/nginx/README.md, before:

# nginx

This module will monitor one or more nginx servers depending on configuration. Servers can be either local or remote.

**Requirements:**

-   nginx with configured 'ngx_http_stub_status_module'
-   'location /stub_status'

Example nginx configuration can be found in 'python.d/nginx.conf'

It produces following charts:

1.  **Active Connections**

    -   active

2.  **Requests** in requests/s

    -   requests

3.  **Active Connections by Status**

    -   reading
    -   writing
    -   waiting

4.  **Connections Rate** in connections/s

    -   accepts
    -   handled

## configuration

Needs only `url` to server's `stub_status`

Here is an example for local server:

```yaml
update_every : 10
priority     : 90100

local:
  url     : 'http://localhost/stub_status'
```

Without configuration, module attempts to connect to `http://localhost/stub_status`

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fnginx%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)

Commit message:

Added collector config to relevant READMEs (#8052)

collectors/python.d.plugin/nginx/README.md, after:

# nginx

This module will monitor one or more nginx servers depending on configuration. Servers can be either local or remote.

**Requirements:**

-   nginx with configured 'ngx_http_stub_status_module'
-   'location /stub_status'

Example nginx configuration can be found in 'python.d/nginx.conf'

It produces following charts:

1.  **Active Connections**

    -   active

2.  **Requests** in requests/s

    -   requests

3.  **Active Connections by Status**

    -   reading
    -   writing
    -   waiting

4.  **Connections Rate** in connections/s

    -   accepts
    -   handled

## Configuration

Edit the `python.d/nginx.conf` configuration file using `edit-config` from the your agent's [config
directory](../../../docs/step-by-step/step-04.md#find-your-netdataconf-file), which is typically at `/etc/netdata`.

```bash
cd /etc/netdata   # Replace this path with your Netdata config directory, if different
sudo ./edit-config python.d/nginx.conf
```

Needs only `url` to server's `stub_status`.

Here is an example for local server:

```yaml
update_every : 10
priority     : 90100

local:
  url     : 'http://localhost/stub_status'
```

Without configuration, module attempts to connect to `http://localhost/stub_status`

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fnginx%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)
