collectors/python.d.plugin/dovecot/README.md, before:

# dovecot

This module provides statistics information from Dovecot server.
Statistics are taken from dovecot socket by executing `EXPORT global` command.
More information about dovecot stats can be found on [project wiki page.](http://wiki2.dovecot.org/Statistics)

**Requirement:**
Dovecot UNIX socket with R/W permissions for user netdata or Dovecot with configured TCP/IP socket.

Module gives information with following charts:

1. **sessions**
 * active sessions

2. **logins**
 * logins

3. **commands** - number of IMAP commands
 * commands

4. **Faults**
 * minor
 * major

5. **Context Switches**
 * volountary
 * involountary

6. **disk** in bytes/s
 * read
 * write

7. **bytes** in bytes/s
 * read
 * write

8. **number of syscalls** in syscalls/s
 * read
 * write

9. **lookups** - number of lookups per second
 * path
 * attr

10. **hits** - number of cache hits
 * hits

11. **attempts** - authorization attempts
 * success
 * failure

12. **cache** - cached authorization hits
 * hit
 * miss

### configuration

Sample:

```yaml
localtcpip:
  name     : 'local'
  host     : '127.0.0.1'
  port     : 24242

localsocket:
  name     : 'local'
  socket   : '/var/run/dovecot/stats'
```

If no configuration is given, module will attempt to connect to dovecot using unix socket localized in `/var/run/dovecot/stats`

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fdovecot%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)]()

Commit message:

dovecot readme and config update for v2.3 (#4959)
##### Summary
Related to https://github.com/netdata/netdata/issues/4392

* config update (add new job)
* readme update

added info about v.2.3 compatibility

##### Component Name
`/netdata/collectors/python.d.plugin/dovecot/`

##### Additional Information

collectors/python.d.plugin/dovecot/README.md, after:

# dovecot

This module provides statistics information from Dovecot server.

Statistics are taken from dovecot socket by executing `EXPORT global` command.
More information about dovecot stats can be found on [project wiki page.](http://wiki2.dovecot.org/Statistics)

Module isn't compatible with new statistic api (v2.3), but you are still able to use the module with Dovecot v2.3
by following [upgrading steps.](https://wiki2.dovecot.org/Upgrading/2.3).

**Requirement:**
Dovecot UNIX socket with R/W permissions for user netdata or Dovecot with configured TCP/IP socket.

Module gives information with following charts:

1. **sessions**
 * active sessions

2. **logins**
 * logins

3. **commands** - number of IMAP commands
 * commands

4. **Faults**
 * minor
 * major

5. **Context Switches**
 * volountary
 * involountary

6. **disk** in bytes/s
 * read
 * write

7. **bytes** in bytes/s
 * read
 * write

8. **number of syscalls** in syscalls/s
 * read
 * write

9. **lookups** - number of lookups per second
 * path
 * attr

10. **hits** - number of cache hits
 * hits

11. **attempts** - authorization attempts
 * success
 * failure

12. **cache** - cached authorization hits
 * hit
 * miss

### configuration

Sample:

```yaml
localtcpip:
  name     : 'local'
  host     : '127.0.0.1'
  port     : 24242

localsocket:
  name     : 'local'
  socket   : '/var/run/dovecot/stats'
```

If no configuration is given, module will attempt to connect to dovecot using unix socket localized in `/var/run/dovecot/stats`

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fdovecot%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)]()
