collectors/python.d.plugin/ntpd/README.md, before:

# ntpd

Module monitors the system variables of the local `ntpd` daemon (optional incl. variables of the polled peers) using the NTP Control Message Protocol via UDP socket, similar to `ntpq`, the [standard NTP query program](http://doc.ntp.org/current-stable/ntpq.html).

**Requirements:**

-   Version: `NTPv4`
-   Local interrogation allowed in `/etc/ntp.conf` (default):

```
# Local users may interrogate the ntp server more closely.
restrict 127.0.0.1
restrict ::1
```

It produces:

1.  system

    -   offset
    -   jitter
    -   frequency
    -   delay
    -   dispersion
    -   stratum
    -   tc
    -   precision

2.  peers

    -   offset
    -   delay
    -   dispersion
    -   jitter
    -   rootdelay
    -   rootdispersion
    -   stratum
    -   hmode
    -   pmode
    -   hpoll
    -   ppoll
    -   precision

## configuration

Sample:

```yaml
update_every: 10

host: 'localhost'
port: '123'
show_peers: yes
# hide peers with source address in ranges 127.0.0.0/8 and 192.168.0.0/16
peer_filter: '(127\..*)|(192\.168\..*)'
# check for new/changed peers every 60 updates
peer_rescan: 60
```

Sample (multiple jobs):

Note: `ntp.conf` on the host `otherhost` must be configured to allow queries from our local host by including a line like `restrict <IP> nomodify notrap nopeer`.

```yaml
local:
    host: 'localhost'

otherhost:
    host: 'otherhost'
```

If no configuration is given, module will attempt to connect to `ntpd` on `::1:123` or `127.0.0.1:123` and show charts for the systemvars. Use `show_peers: yes` to also show the charts for configured peers. Local peers in the range `127.0.0.0/8` are hidden by default, use `peer_filter: ''` to show all peers.

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fntpd%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)

Commit message:

Added collector config to relevant READMEs (#8052)

collectors/python.d.plugin/ntpd/README.md, after:

# ntpd

Module monitors the system variables of the local `ntpd` daemon (optional incl. variables of the polled peers) using the NTP Control Message Protocol via UDP socket, similar to `ntpq`, the [standard NTP query program](http://doc.ntp.org/current-stable/ntpq.html).

**Requirements:**

-   Version: `NTPv4`
-   Local interrogation allowed in `/etc/ntp.conf` (default):

```
# Local users may interrogate the ntp server more closely.
restrict 127.0.0.1
restrict ::1
```

It produces:

1.  system

    -   offset
    -   jitter
    -   frequency
    -   delay
    -   dispersion
    -   stratum
    -   tc
    -   precision

2.  peers

    -   offset
    -   delay
    -   dispersion
    -   jitter
    -   rootdelay
    -   rootdispersion
    -   stratum
    -   hmode
    -   pmode
    -   hpoll
    -   ppoll
    -   precision

## Configuration

Edit the `python.d/ntpd.conf` configuration file using `edit-config` from the your agent's [config
directory](../../../docs/step-by-step/step-04.md#find-your-netdataconf-file), which is typically at `/etc/netdata`.

```bash
cd /etc/netdata   # Replace this path with your Netdata config directory, if different
sudo ./edit-config python.d/ntpd.conf
```

Sample:

```yaml
update_every: 10

host: 'localhost'
port: '123'
show_peers: yes
# hide peers with source address in ranges 127.0.0.0/8 and 192.168.0.0/16
peer_filter: '(127\..*)|(192\.168\..*)'
# check for new/changed peers every 60 updates
peer_rescan: 60
```

Sample (multiple jobs):

Note: `ntp.conf` on the host `otherhost` must be configured to allow queries from our local host by including a line like `restrict <IP> nomodify notrap nopeer`.

```yaml
local:
    host: 'localhost'

otherhost:
    host: 'otherhost'
```

If no configuration is given, module will attempt to connect to `ntpd` on `::1:123` or `127.0.0.1:123` and show charts for the systemvars. Use `show_peers: yes` to also show the charts for configured peers. Local peers in the range `127.0.0.0/8` are hidden by default, use `peer_filter: ''` to show all peers.

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fntpd%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)
