collectors/python.d.plugin/freeradius/README.md, before:

# freeradius

Uses the `radclient` command to provide freeradius statistics. It is not recommended to run it every second.

It produces:

1.  **Authentication counters:**

    -   access-accepts
    -   access-rejects
    -   auth-dropped-requests
    -   auth-duplicate-requests
    -   auth-invalid-requests
    -   auth-malformed-requests
    -   auth-unknown-types

2.  **Accounting counters:** [optional]

    -   accounting-requests
    -   accounting-responses
    -   acct-dropped-requests
    -   acct-duplicate-requests
    -   acct-invalid-requests
    -   acct-malformed-requests
    -   acct-unknown-types

3.  **Proxy authentication counters:** [optional]

    -   proxy-access-accepts
    -   proxy-access-rejects
    -   proxy-auth-dropped-requests
    -   proxy-auth-duplicate-requests
    -   proxy-auth-invalid-requests
    -   proxy-auth-malformed-requests
    -   proxy-auth-unknown-types

4.  **Proxy accounting counters:** [optional]

    -   proxy-accounting-requests
    -   proxy-accounting-responses
    -   proxy-acct-dropped-requests
    -   proxy-acct-duplicate-requests
    -   proxy-acct-invalid-requests
    -   proxy-acct-malformed-requests
    -   proxy-acct-unknown-typesa

## configuration

Sample:

```yaml
local:
  host       : 'localhost'
  port       : '18121'
  secret     : 'adminsecret'
  acct       : False # Freeradius accounting statistics.
  proxy_auth : False # Freeradius proxy authentication statistics.
  proxy_acct : False # Freeradius proxy accounting statistics.
```

**Freeradius server configuration:**

The configuration for the status server is automatically created in the sites-available directory.
By default, server is enabled and can be queried from every client.
FreeRADIUS will only respond to status-server messages, if the status-server virtual server has been enabled.

To do this, create a link from the sites-enabled directory to the status file in the sites-available directory:

-   cd sites-enabled
-   ln -s ../sites-available/status status

and restart/reload your FREERADIUS server.

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Ffreeradius%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)

Commit message:

Added collector config to relevant READMEs (#8052)

collectors/python.d.plugin/freeradius/README.md, after:

# freeradius

Uses the `radclient` command to provide freeradius statistics. It is not recommended to run it every second.

It produces:

1.  **Authentication counters:**

    -   access-accepts
    -   access-rejects
    -   auth-dropped-requests
    -   auth-duplicate-requests
    -   auth-invalid-requests
    -   auth-malformed-requests
    -   auth-unknown-types

2.  **Accounting counters:** [optional]

    -   accounting-requests
    -   accounting-responses
    -   acct-dropped-requests
    -   acct-duplicate-requests
    -   acct-invalid-requests
    -   acct-malformed-requests
    -   acct-unknown-types

3.  **Proxy authentication counters:** [optional]

    -   proxy-access-accepts
    -   proxy-access-rejects
    -   proxy-auth-dropped-requests
    -   proxy-auth-duplicate-requests
    -   proxy-auth-invalid-requests
    -   proxy-auth-malformed-requests
    -   proxy-auth-unknown-types

4.  **Proxy accounting counters:** [optional]

    -   proxy-accounting-requests
    -   proxy-accounting-responses
    -   proxy-acct-dropped-requests
    -   proxy-acct-duplicate-requests
    -   proxy-acct-invalid-requests
    -   proxy-acct-malformed-requests
    -   proxy-acct-unknown-typesa

## configuration

Edit the `python.d/freeradius.conf` configuration file using `edit-config` from the your agent's [config
directory](../../../docs/step-by-step/step-04.md#find-your-netdataconf-file), which is typically at `/etc/netdata`.

```bash
cd /etc/netdata   # Replace this path with your Netdata config directory, if different
sudo ./edit-config python.d/freeradius.conf
```

Sample:

```yaml
local:
  host       : 'localhost'
  port       : '18121'
  secret     : 'adminsecret'
  acct       : False # Freeradius accounting statistics.
  proxy_auth : False # Freeradius proxy authentication statistics.
  proxy_acct : False # Freeradius proxy accounting statistics.
```

**Freeradius server configuration:**

The configuration for the status server is automatically created in the sites-available directory.
By default, server is enabled and can be queried from every client.
FreeRADIUS will only respond to status-server messages, if the status-server virtual server has been enabled.

To do this, create a link from the sites-enabled directory to the status file in the sites-available directory:

-   cd sites-enabled
-   ln -s ../sites-available/status status

and restart/reload your FREERADIUS server.

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Ffreeradius%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)
