packaging/installer/methods/packages.md, before:

# Install Netdata with .deb/.rpm packages

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/netdata/netdata/master/web/gui/images/packaging-beta-tag.svg?sanitize=true)

We provide our own flavour of binary packages for the most common operating systems that comply with .RPM and .DEB
packaging formats.

We have currently released packages following the .RPM format with version
[1.16.0](https://github.com/netdata/netdata/releases/tag/v1.16.0). We have planned to release packages following the
.DEB format with version [1.17.0](https://github.com/netdata/netdata/releases/tag/v1.17.0). Early adopters may
experiment with our .DEB formatted packages using our nightly releases. Our current packaging infrastructure provider is
[Package Cloud](https://packagecloud.io).

Netdata is committed to support installation of our solution to all operating systems. This is a constant battle for
Netdata, as we strive to automate and make things easier for our users. For the operating system support matrix, please
visit our [distributions](../../DISTRIBUTIONS.md) support page.

We provide two separate repositories, one for our stable releases and one for our nightly releases.

1.  Stable releases: Our stable production releases are hosted in
    [netdata/netdata](https://packagecloud.io/netdata/netdata) repository of package cloud
2.  Nightly releases: Our latest releases are hosted in
    [netdata/netdata-edge](https://packagecloud.io/netdata/netdata-edge) repository of package cloud

Visit the repository pages and follow the quick set-up instructions to get started.

## What's next?

When you finish installing Netdata, be sure to visit our [step-by-step tutorial](../../../docs/step-by-step/step-00.md)
for a fully-guided tour into Netdata's capabilities and how to configure it according to your needs.

Or, if you're a monitoring and system administration pro, skip ahead to our [getting started
guide](../../../docs/getting-started.md) for a quick overview.

Commit message:

Add docs about using caching proxies with our package repos. (#7909)
This adds some basic documentation about how to use our package
repositories through caching proxies, since PackageCloud's configuration
doesn't really do anything to properly support it.

Relevant to: #7905

packaging/installer/methods/packages.md, after:

# Install Netdata with .deb/.rpm packages

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/netdata/netdata/master/web/gui/images/packaging-beta-tag.svg?sanitize=true)

We provide our own flavour of binary packages for the most common operating systems that comply with .RPM and .DEB
packaging formats.

We have currently released packages following the .RPM format with version
[1.16.0](https://github.com/netdata/netdata/releases/tag/v1.16.0). We have planned to release packages following the
.DEB format with version [1.17.0](https://github.com/netdata/netdata/releases/tag/v1.17.0). Early adopters may
experiment with our .DEB formatted packages using our nightly releases. Our current packaging infrastructure provider is
[Package Cloud](https://packagecloud.io).

Netdata is committed to support installation of our solution to all operating systems. This is a constant battle for
Netdata, as we strive to automate and make things easier for our users. For the operating system support matrix, please
visit our [distributions](../../DISTRIBUTIONS.md) support page.

We provide two separate repositories, one for our stable releases and one for our nightly releases.

1.  Stable releases: Our stable production releases are hosted in
    [netdata/netdata](https://packagecloud.io/netdata/netdata) repository of package cloud
2.  Nightly releases: Our latest releases are hosted in
    [netdata/netdata-edge](https://packagecloud.io/netdata/netdata-edge) repository of package cloud

Visit the repository pages and follow the quick set-up instructions to get started.

## Using caching proxies with PackageCloud repositories

PackageCloud only provides HTTPS access to repositories they host, which
means in turn that Netdata's package repositories are only accessible
via HTTPS. This is known to cause issues with some setups that use a
caching proxy for package downloads.

If you are using such a setup, there are a couple of ways you can work around this:

* Configure your proxy to automatically pass through HTTPS connections
  without caching them. This is the simplest solution, but means that
  downloads of Netdata pacakges will not be cached.
* Mirror the respository locally on your proxy system, and use that mirror
  when installing on other systems. This requires more setup and more disk
  space on the caching host, but it lets you cache the packages locally.
* Some specific caching proxies may have alternative configuration
  options to deal with these issues. You can find such options in their
  documentation.

## What's next?

When you finish installing Netdata, be sure to visit our [step-by-step tutorial](../../../docs/step-by-step/step-00.md)
for a fully-guided tour into Netdata's capabilities and how to configure it according to your needs.

Or, if you're a monitoring and system administration pro, skip ahead to our [getting started
guide](../../../docs/getting-started.md) for a quick overview.
