collectors/python.d.plugin/varnish/README.md, before:

# varnish

Module uses the `varnishstat` command to provide varnish cache statistics.

It produces:

1. **Connections Statistics** in connections/s
 * accepted
 * dropped

2. **Client Requests** in requests/s
 * received

3. **All History Hit Rate Ratio** in percent
 * hit
 * miss
 * hitpass

4. **Current Poll Hit Rate Ratio** in percent
 * hit
 * miss
 * hitpass

5. **Expired Objects** in expired/s
 * objects

6. **Least Recently Used Nuked Objects** in nuked/s
 * objects


7. **Number Of Threads In All Pools** in threads
 * threads

8. **Threads Statistics** in threads/s
 * created
 * failed
 * limited

9. **Current Queue Length** in requests
 * in queue

10. **Backend Connections Statistics** in connections/s
 * successful
 * unhealthy
 * reused
 * closed
 * resycled
 * failed

10. **Requests To The Backend** in requests/s
 * received

11. **ESI Statistics** in problems/s
 * errors
 * warnings

12. **Memory Usage** in MB
 * free
 * allocated

13. **Uptime** in seconds
 * uptime


### configuration

No configuration is needed.

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fvarnish%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)]()

Commit message:

varnish module: add instance_name option (#5264)
* add instance_name option

* add timeout

* minor

collectors/python.d.plugin/varnish/README.md, after:

# varnish

Module uses the `varnishstat` command to provide varnish cache statistics.

It produces:

1. **Connections Statistics** in connections/s
 * accepted
 * dropped

2. **Client Requests** in requests/s
 * received

3. **All History Hit Rate Ratio** in percent
 * hit
 * miss
 * hitpass

4. **Current Poll Hit Rate Ratio** in percent
 * hit
 * miss
 * hitpass

5. **Expired Objects** in expired/s
 * objects

6. **Least Recently Used Nuked Objects** in nuked/s
 * objects


7. **Number Of Threads In All Pools** in threads
 * threads

8. **Threads Statistics** in threads/s
 * created
 * failed
 * limited

9. **Current Queue Length** in requests
 * in queue

10. **Backend Connections Statistics** in connections/s
 * successful
 * unhealthy
 * reused
 * closed
 * resycled
 * failed

10. **Requests To The Backend** in requests/s
 * received

11. **ESI Statistics** in problems/s
 * errors
 * warnings

12. **Memory Usage** in MB
 * free
 * allocated

13. **Uptime** in seconds
 * uptime


### configuration

Only one parameter is supported:

```yaml
instance_name: 'name'
```

The name of the varnishd instance to get logs from. If not specified, the host name is used.

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fvarnish%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)]()
