collectors/python.d.plugin/bind_rndc/README.md, before:

# bind_rndc

Module parses bind dump file to collect real-time performance metrics

**Requirements:**

-   Version of bind must be 9.6 +
-   Netdata must have permissions to run `rndc stats`

It produces:

1.  **Name server statistics**

    -   requests
    -   responses
    -   success
    -   auth_answer
    -   nonauth_answer
    -   nxrrset
    -   failure
    -   nxdomain
    -   recursion
    -   duplicate
    -   rejections

2.  **Incoming queries**

    -   RESERVED0
    -   A
    -   NS
    -   CNAME
    -   SOA
    -   PTR
    -   MX
    -   TXT
    -   X25
    -   AAAA
    -   SRV
    -   NAPTR
    -   A6
    -   DS
    -   RSIG
    -   DNSKEY
    -   SPF
    -   ANY
    -   DLV

3.  **Outgoing queries**

-   Same as Incoming queries

## configuration

Sample:

```yaml
local:
  named_stats_path       : '/var/log/bind/named.stats'
```

If no configuration is given, module will attempt to read named.stats file  at `/var/log/bind/named.stats`

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fbind_rndc%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)

Commit message:

Added collector config to relevant READMEs (#8052)

collectors/python.d.plugin/bind_rndc/README.md, after:

# bind_rndc

Module parses bind dump file to collect real-time performance metrics

**Requirements:**

-   Version of bind must be 9.6 +
-   Netdata must have permissions to run `rndc stats`

It produces:

1.  **Name server statistics**

    -   requests
    -   responses
    -   success
    -   auth_answer
    -   nonauth_answer
    -   nxrrset
    -   failure
    -   nxdomain
    -   recursion
    -   duplicate
    -   rejections

2.  **Incoming queries**

    -   RESERVED0
    -   A
    -   NS
    -   CNAME
    -   SOA
    -   PTR
    -   MX
    -   TXT
    -   X25
    -   AAAA
    -   SRV
    -   NAPTR
    -   A6
    -   DS
    -   RSIG
    -   DNSKEY
    -   SPF
    -   ANY
    -   DLV

3.  **Outgoing queries**

-   Same as Incoming queries

## configuration

Edit the `python.d/bind_rndc.conf` configuration file using `edit-config` from the your agent's [config
directory](../../../docs/step-by-step/step-04.md#find-your-netdataconf-file), which is typically at `/etc/netdata`.

```bash
cd /etc/netdata   # Replace this path with your Netdata config directory, if different
sudo ./edit-config python.d/bind_rndc.conf
```

Sample:

```yaml
local:
  named_stats_path       : '/var/log/bind/named.stats'
```

If no configuration is given, module will attempt to read named.stats file  at `/var/log/bind/named.stats`

---

[![analytics](https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&aip=1&t=pageview&_s=1&ds=github&dr=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fnetdata%2Fnetdata&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-netdata.io%2Fgithub%2Fcollectors%2Fpython.d.plugin%2Fbind_rndc%2FREADME&_u=MAC~&cid=5792dfd7-8dc4-476b-af31-da2fdb9f93d2&tid=UA-64295674-3)](<>)
